README.md, before:



# Codekub

*A beginner-friendly fork of Omakub for Computer Science students*

![Demo GIF](video/output.gif)

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CodeCompasss/codekub/main/boot.sh | bash
```

**Codekub** is a fork of **Omakub**, reimagined specifically for **Computer Science beginners** and early-stage developers.

Its goal is simple:
👉 turn a fresh Ubuntu installation into a **fully configured, modern, and beginner-friendly development environment** using a single command — **while clearly explaining what’s happening and why**.

---

## What makes Codekub different?

While Omakub is an opinionated, production-ready Linux setup for experienced developers, **Codekub focuses on learning**.

Codekub is designed for:

* 🎓 **CSE students**
* 🧑‍💻 **Programming beginners**
* 🚀 Anyone learning development tools from scratch

### Codekub emphasizes:

* Clear explanations of tools and configurations
* Beginner-oriented defaults
* Practical learning over hidden magic
* Modern web and software development essentials
* A clean, beautiful Linux experience without overwhelm

Instead of just installing tools, **Codekub helps you understand them**.

---

## What does Codekub do?

With one command, Codekub:

* Sets up a modern Ubuntu development environment
* Installs essential programming tools and languages
* Configures the terminal, shell, and editor
* Applies a clean and productive UI
* Explains key concepts along the way

No need to manually configure everything or guess best practices — Codekub provides a guided starting point.

---

## Based on Omakub

Codekub is built on top of the excellent work done in **Omakub**, an opinionated Linux setup created to showcase what Linux can be at its best.

Learn more about the original project at:
👉 [https://omakub.org](https://omakub.org)

---



## License

Codekub inherits the open-source spirit of Omakub and is released under the **License**.

Commit message:

add installation process video on readme file

README.md, after:



# Codekub

*A beginner-friendly fork of Omakub for Computer Science students*

![Demo GIF](video/output.gif)

```bash
curl -sSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/CodeCompasss/codekub/main/boot.sh | bash
```

**Codekub** is a fork of **Omakub**, reimagined specifically for **Computer Science beginners** and early-stage developers.

Its goal is simple:
👉 turn a fresh Ubuntu installation into a **fully configured, modern, and beginner-friendly development environment** using a single command — **while clearly explaining what’s happening and why**.

---

## What makes Codekub different?

While Omakub is an opinionated, production-ready Linux setup for experienced developers, **Codekub focuses on learning**.

Codekub is designed for:

* 🎓 **CSE students**
* 🧑‍💻 **Programming beginners**
* 🚀 Anyone learning development tools from scratch

### Codekub emphasizes:

* Clear explanations of tools and configurations
* Beginner-oriented defaults
* Practical learning over hidden magic
* Modern web and software development essentials
* A clean, beautiful Linux experience without overwhelm

Instead of just installing tools, **Codekub helps you understand them**.

---

## What does Codekub do?

With one command, Codekub:

* Sets up a modern Ubuntu development environment
* Installs essential programming tools and languages
* Configures the terminal, shell, and editor
* Applies a clean and productive UI
* Explains key concepts along the way

No need to manually configure everything or guess best practices — Codekub provides a guided starting point.

---

## Based on Omakub

Codekub is built on top of the excellent work done in **Omakub**, an opinionated Linux setup created to showcase what Linux can be at its best.

Learn more about the original project at:
👉 [https://omakub.org](https://omakub.org)

---

here is the youtube video link on installation process 
[Watch this video](https://youtu.be/AU_xhhFQX-0)


## License

Codekub inherits the open-source spirit of Omakub and is released under the **License**.
